sdk/typescript/README.md, before:

# Codex SDK

Embed the Codex agent in your workflows and apps.

The TypeScript SDK wraps the bundled `codex` binary. It spawns the CLI and exchanges JSONL events over stdin/stdout.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @openai/codex-sdk
```

Requires Node.js 18+.

## Quickstart

```typescript
import { Codex } from "@openai/codex-sdk";

const codex = new Codex();
const thread = codex.startThread();
const turn = await thread.run("Diagnose the test failure and propose a fix");

console.log(turn.finalResponse);
console.log(turn.items);
```

Call `run()` repeatedly on the same `Thread` instance to continue that conversation.

```typescript
const nextTurn = await thread.run("Implement the fix");
```

### Streaming responses

`run()` buffers events until the turn finishes. To react to intermediate progress—tool calls, streaming responses, and file diffs—use `runStreamed()` instead, which returns an async generator of structured events.

```typescript
const { events } = await thread.runStreamed("Diagnose the test failure and propose a fix");

for await (const event of events) {
  switch (event.type) {
    case "item.completed":
      console.log("item", event.item);
      break;
    case "turn.completed":
      console.log("usage", event.usage);
      break;
  }
}
```

### Structured output

The Codex agent can produce a JSON response that conforms to a specified schema. The schema can be provided for each turn as a plain JSON object.

```typescript
const schema = {
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    summary: { type: "string" },
    status: { type: "string", enum: ["ok", "action_required"] },
  },
  required: ["summary", "status"],
  additionalProperties: false,
} as const;

const turn = await thread.run("Summarize repository status", { outputSchema: schema });
console.log(turn.finalResponse);
```

You can also create a JSON schema from a [Zod schema](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) using the [`zod-to-json-schema`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zod-to-json-schema) package and setting the `target` to `"openAi"`.

```typescript
const schema = z.object({
  summary: z.string(),
  status: z.enum(["ok", "action_required"]),
});

const turn = await thread.run("Summarize repository status", {
  outputSchema: zodToJsonSchema(schema, { target: "openAi" }),
});
console.log(turn.finalResponse);
```

### Resuming an existing thread

Threads are persisted in `~/.codex/sessions`. If you lose the in-memory `Thread` object, reconstruct it with `resumeThread()` and keep going.

```typescript
const savedThreadId = process.env.CODEX_THREAD_ID!;
const thread = codex.resumeThread(savedThreadId);
await thread.run("Implement the fix");
```

### Working directory controls

Codex runs in the current working directory by default. To avoid unrecoverable errors, Codex requires the working directory to be a Git repository. You can skip the Git repository check by passing the `skipGitRepoCheck` option when creating a thread. 

```typescript
const thread = codex.startThread({
  workingDirectory: "/path/to/project",
  skipGitRepoCheck: true,
});
```

Commit message:

feat: add images support to the Codex Typescript SDK (#5281)
Extend `run` and `runStreamed` input to be either a `string` or
structured input. A structured input is an array of text parts and/or
image paths, which will then be fed to the CLI through the `--image`
argument. Text parts are combined with double newlines. For instance:

```ts
const turn = await thread.run([
  { type: "text", text: "Describe these screenshots" },
  { type: "local_image", path: "./ui.png" },
  { type: "local_image", path: "./diagram.jpg" },
  { type: "text", text: "Thanks!" },
]);
```

Ends up launching the CLI with:

```
codex exec --image foo.png --image bar.png "Describe these screenshots\n\nThanks!" 
```

The complete `Input` type for both function now is:

```ts
export type UserInput =
  | {
      type: "text";
      text: string;
    }
  | {
      type: "local_image";
      path: string;
    };

export type Input = string | UserInput[];
```

This brings the Codex SDK closer to feature parity with the CLI.
Adresses #5280 .

sdk/typescript/README.md, after:

# Codex SDK

Embed the Codex agent in your workflows and apps.

The TypeScript SDK wraps the bundled `codex` binary. It spawns the CLI and exchanges JSONL events over stdin/stdout.

## Installation

```bash
npm install @openai/codex-sdk
```

Requires Node.js 18+.

## Quickstart

```typescript
import { Codex } from "@openai/codex-sdk";

const codex = new Codex();
const thread = codex.startThread();
const turn = await thread.run("Diagnose the test failure and propose a fix");

console.log(turn.finalResponse);
console.log(turn.items);
```

Call `run()` repeatedly on the same `Thread` instance to continue that conversation.

```typescript
const nextTurn = await thread.run("Implement the fix");
```

### Streaming responses

`run()` buffers events until the turn finishes. To react to intermediate progress—tool calls, streaming responses, and file diffs—use `runStreamed()` instead, which returns an async generator of structured events.

```typescript
const { events } = await thread.runStreamed("Diagnose the test failure and propose a fix");

for await (const event of events) {
  switch (event.type) {
    case "item.completed":
      console.log("item", event.item);
      break;
    case "turn.completed":
      console.log("usage", event.usage);
      break;
  }
}
```

### Structured output

The Codex agent can produce a JSON response that conforms to a specified schema. The schema can be provided for each turn as a plain JSON object.

```typescript
const schema = {
  type: "object",
  properties: {
    summary: { type: "string" },
    status: { type: "string", enum: ["ok", "action_required"] },
  },
  required: ["summary", "status"],
  additionalProperties: false,
} as const;

const turn = await thread.run("Summarize repository status", { outputSchema: schema });
console.log(turn.finalResponse);
```

You can also create a JSON schema from a [Zod schema](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) using the [`zod-to-json-schema`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zod-to-json-schema) package and setting the `target` to `"openAi"`.

```typescript
const schema = z.object({
  summary: z.string(),
  status: z.enum(["ok", "action_required"]),
});

const turn = await thread.run("Summarize repository status", {
  outputSchema: zodToJsonSchema(schema, { target: "openAi" }),
});
console.log(turn.finalResponse);
```

### Attaching images

Provide structured input entries when you need to include images alongside text. Text entries are concatenated into the final prompt while image entries are passed to the Codex CLI via `--image`.

```typescript
const turn = await thread.run([
  { type: "text", text: "Describe these screenshots" },
  { type: "local_image", path: "./ui.png" },
  { type: "local_image", path: "./diagram.jpg" },
]);
```

### Resuming an existing thread

Threads are persisted in `~/.codex/sessions`. If you lose the in-memory `Thread` object, reconstruct it with `resumeThread()` and keep going.

```typescript
const savedThreadId = process.env.CODEX_THREAD_ID!;
const thread = codex.resumeThread(savedThreadId);
await thread.run("Implement the fix");
```

### Working directory controls

Codex runs in the current working directory by default. To avoid unrecoverable errors, Codex requires the working directory to be a Git repository. You can skip the Git repository check by passing the `skipGitRepoCheck` option when creating a thread.

```typescript
const thread = codex.startThread({
  workingDirectory: "/path/to/project",
  skipGitRepoCheck: true,
});
```
