docs/install.md, before:

## Install & build

### System requirements

| Requirement                 | Details                                                         |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Operating systems           | macOS 12+, Ubuntu 20.04+/Debian 10+, or Windows 11 **via WSL2** |
| Git (optional, recommended) | 2.23+ for built-in PR helpers                                   |
| RAM                         | 4-GB minimum (8-GB recommended)                                 |

### DotSlash

The GitHub Release also contains a [DotSlash](https://dotslash-cli.com/) file for the Codex CLI named `codex`. Using a DotSlash file makes it possible to make a lightweight commit to source control to ensure all contributors use the same version of an executable, regardless of what platform they use for development.

### Build from source

```bash
# Clone the repository and navigate to the root of the Cargo workspace.
git clone https://github.com/openai/codex.git
cd codex/codex-rs

# Install the Rust toolchain, if necessary.
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy

# Build Codex.
cargo build

# Launch the TUI with a sample prompt.
cargo run --bin codex -- "explain this codebase to me"

# After making changes, ensure the code is clean.
cargo fmt -- --config imports_granularity=Item
cargo clippy --tests

# Run the tests.
cargo test
```

Commit message:

style: reformat imports granularity to module
Choosing module granularity over item granularity is based on a similar
choice made in the standard library to balance readabilty, with easy to
read diffs.

This saves 2098 lines or about 33% of the lines spent writing imports.
This is beneficial to both human readers who have to scroll past large
import blocks when reading a file as well as codex which shouldn't have
to add as many tokens to its context.

Manual changes to rustfmt.toml, rust-ci.yml, justfile, docs/contributing
and docs/install. The actual format commit is intentionally in a second
commit to make it easier to rebase this PR as main moves (drop the
next commit and re-run cargo +nightly fmt).

Added cargo nightly to the ci and justfile. In theory this is unstable,
but in real world use this tends to hit a problems perhaps once every
6 months. The fix is usually fairly easy (pin a version briefly), and
the problems tend to be fixed pretty quickly.

docs/install.md, after:

## Install & build

### System requirements

| Requirement                 | Details                                                         |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Operating systems           | macOS 12+, Ubuntu 20.04+/Debian 10+, or Windows 11 **via WSL2** |
| Git (optional, recommended) | 2.23+ for built-in PR helpers                                   |
| RAM                         | 4-GB minimum (8-GB recommended)                                 |

### DotSlash

The GitHub Release also contains a [DotSlash](https://dotslash-cli.com/) file for the Codex CLI named `codex`. Using a DotSlash file makes it possible to make a lightweight commit to source control to ensure all contributors use the same version of an executable, regardless of what platform they use for development.

### Build from source

```bash
# Clone the repository and navigate to the root of the Cargo workspace.
git clone https://github.com/openai/codex.git
cd codex/codex-rs

# Install the Rust toolchain, if necessary.
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh -s -- -y
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
rustup component add rustfmt
rustup component add clippy
rustup install nightly # For rustfmt with unstable options.

# Build Codex.
cargo build

# Launch the TUI with a sample prompt.
cargo run --bin codex -- "explain this codebase to me"

# After making changes, ensure the code is clean.
cargo +nightly fmt
cargo clippy --tests

# Run the tests.
cargo test
```
