docs/sandbox.md, before:

## Sandbox & approvals

What Codex is allowed to do is governed by a combination of **sandbox modes** (what Codex is allowed to do without supervision) and **approval policies** (when you must confirm an action). This page explains the options, how they interact, and how the sandbox behaves on each platform.

### Approval policies

Codex starts conservatively. Until you explicitly tell it a workspace is trusted, the CLI defaults to **read-only sandboxing** with the `read-only` approval preset. Codex can inspect files and answer questions, but every edit or command requires approval.

When you mark a workspace as trusted (for example via the onboarding prompt or `/approvals` → “Trust this directory”), Codex upgrades the default preset to **Auto**: sandboxed writes inside the workspace with `AskForApproval::OnRequest`. Codex only interrupts you when it needs to leave the workspace or rerun something outside the sandbox.

If you want maximum guardrails for a trusted repo, switch back to Read Only from the `/approvals` picker. If you truly need hands-off automation, use `Full Access`—but be deliberate, because that skips both the sandbox and approvals.

#### Defaults and recommendations

- Every session starts in a sandbox. Until a repo is trusted, Codex enforces read-only access and will prompt before any write or command.
- Marking a repo as trusted switches the default preset to Auto (`workspace-write` + `ask-for-approval on-request`) so Codex can keep iterating locally without nagging you.
- The workspace always includes the current directory plus temporary directories like `/tmp`. Use `/status` to confirm the exact writable roots.
- You can override the defaults from the command line at any time:
  - `codex --sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request`
  - `codex --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request`

### Can I run without ANY approvals?

Yes, you can disable all approval prompts with `--ask-for-approval never`. This option works with all `--sandbox` modes, so you still have full control over Codex's level of autonomy. It will make its best attempt with whatever constraints you provide.

### Common sandbox + approvals combinations

| Intent                             | Flags                                                                                       | Effect                                                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Safe read-only browsing            | `--sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request`                                         | Codex can read files and answer questions. Codex requires approval to make edits, run commands, or access network.                                    |
| Read-only non-interactive (CI)     | `--sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval never`                                              | Reads only; never escalates                                                                                                                           |
| Let it edit the repo, ask if risky | `--sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request`                                   | Codex can read files, make edits, and run commands in the workspace. Codex requires approval for actions outside the workspace or for network access. |
| Auto (preset; trusted repos)       | `--full-auto` (equivalent to `--sandbox workspace-write` + `--ask-for-approval on-request`) | Codex runs sandboxed commands that can write inside the workspace without prompting. Escalates only when it must leave the sandbox.                   |
| YOLO (not recommended)             | `--dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox` (alias: `--yolo`)                              | No sandbox; no prompts                                                                                                                                |

> Note: In `workspace-write`, network is disabled by default unless enabled in config (`[sandbox_workspace_write].network_access = true`).

#### Fine-tuning in `config.toml`

```toml
# approval mode
approval_policy = "untrusted"
sandbox_mode    = "read-only"

# full-auto mode
approval_policy = "on-request"
sandbox_mode    = "workspace-write"

# Optional: allow network in workspace-write mode
[sandbox_workspace_write]
network_access = true
```

You can also save presets as **profiles**:

```toml
[profiles.full_auto]
approval_policy = "on-request"
sandbox_mode    = "workspace-write"

[profiles.readonly_quiet]
approval_policy = "never"
sandbox_mode    = "read-only"
```

### Sandbox mechanics by platform {#platform-sandboxing-details}

The mechanism Codex uses to enforce the sandbox policy depends on your OS:

- **macOS 12+** uses **Apple Seatbelt**. Codex invokes `sandbox-exec` with a profile that corresponds to the selected `--sandbox` mode, constraining filesystem and network access at the OS level.
- **Linux** combines **Landlock** and **seccomp** APIs to approximate the same guarantees. Kernel support is required; older kernels may not expose the necessary features.

In containerized Linux environments (for example Docker), sandboxing may not work when the host or container configuration does not expose Landlock/seccomp. In those cases, configure the container to provide the isolation you need and run Codex with `--sandbox danger-full-access` (or the shorthand `--dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox`) inside that container.

### Experimenting with the Codex Sandbox

To test how commands behave under Codex's sandbox, use the CLI helpers:

```
# macOS
codex sandbox macos [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...

# Linux
codex sandbox linux [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...

# Legacy aliases
codex debug seatbelt [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...
codex debug landlock [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...
```

Commit message:

add(sandbox): local_network config flag

docs/sandbox.md, after:

## Sandbox & approvals

What Codex is allowed to do is governed by a combination of **sandbox modes** (what Codex is allowed to do without supervision) and **approval policies** (when you must confirm an action). This page explains the options, how they interact, and how the sandbox behaves on each platform.

### Approval policies

Codex starts conservatively. Until you explicitly tell it a workspace is trusted, the CLI defaults to **read-only sandboxing** with the `read-only` approval preset. Codex can inspect files and answer questions, but every edit or command requires approval.

When you mark a workspace as trusted (for example via the onboarding prompt or `/approvals` → “Trust this directory”), Codex upgrades the default preset to **Auto**: sandboxed writes inside the workspace with `AskForApproval::OnRequest`. Codex only interrupts you when it needs to leave the workspace or rerun something outside the sandbox.

If you want maximum guardrails for a trusted repo, switch back to Read Only from the `/approvals` picker. If you truly need hands-off automation, use `Full Access`—but be deliberate, because that skips both the sandbox and approvals.

#### Defaults and recommendations

- Every session starts in a sandbox. Until a repo is trusted, Codex enforces read-only access and will prompt before any write or command.
- Marking a repo as trusted switches the default preset to Auto (`workspace-write` + `ask-for-approval on-request`) so Codex can keep iterating locally without nagging you.
- The workspace always includes the current directory plus temporary directories like `/tmp`. Use `/status` to confirm the exact writable roots.
- You can override the defaults from the command line at any time:
  - `codex --sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request`
  - `codex --sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request`

### Can I run without ANY approvals?

Yes, you can disable all approval prompts with `--ask-for-approval never`. This option works with all `--sandbox` modes, so you still have full control over Codex's level of autonomy. It will make its best attempt with whatever constraints you provide.

### Common sandbox + approvals combinations

| Intent                             | Flags                                                                                       | Effect                                                                                                                                                |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Safe read-only browsing            | `--sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval on-request`                                         | Codex can read files and answer questions. Codex requires approval to make edits, run commands, or access network.                                    |
| Read-only non-interactive (CI)     | `--sandbox read-only --ask-for-approval never`                                              | Reads only; never escalates                                                                                                                           |
| Let it edit the repo, ask if risky | `--sandbox workspace-write --ask-for-approval on-request`                                   | Codex can read files, make edits, and run commands in the workspace. Codex requires approval for actions outside the workspace or for network access. |
| Auto (preset; trusted repos)       | `--full-auto` (equivalent to `--sandbox workspace-write` + `--ask-for-approval on-request`) | Codex runs sandboxed commands that can write inside the workspace without prompting. Escalates only when it must leave the sandbox.                   |
| YOLO (not recommended)             | `--dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox` (alias: `--yolo`)                              | No sandbox; no prompts                                                                                                                                |

> Note: In `workspace-write`, network is disabled by default unless you enable loopback access (`[sandbox_workspace_write].local_network = true`) or full outbound network (`[sandbox_workspace_write].network_access = true`).

#### Fine-tuning in `config.toml`

```toml
# approval mode
approval_policy = "untrusted"
sandbox_mode    = "read-only"

# full-auto mode
approval_policy = "on-request"
sandbox_mode    = "workspace-write"

# Optional: allow network in workspace-write mode
[sandbox_workspace_write]
# Allow local loopback traffic (e.g., hitting a dev server on 127.0.0.1).
local_network = true
# Flip to true only if you want unrestricted outbound network access.
network_access = false
```

You can also save presets as **profiles**:

```toml
[profiles.full_auto]
approval_policy = "on-request"
sandbox_mode    = "workspace-write"

[profiles.readonly_quiet]
approval_policy = "never"
sandbox_mode    = "read-only"
```

### Sandbox mechanics by platform {#platform-sandboxing-details}

The mechanism Codex uses to enforce the sandbox policy depends on your OS:

- **macOS 12+** uses **Apple Seatbelt**. Codex invokes `sandbox-exec` with a profile that corresponds to the selected `--sandbox` mode, constraining filesystem and network access at the OS level.
- **Linux** combines **Landlock** and **seccomp** APIs to approximate the same guarantees. Kernel support is required; older kernels may not expose the necessary features. The current implementation cannot distinguish loopback traffic—enabling `local_network` lifts the network seccomp filter entirely.

In containerized Linux environments (for example Docker), sandboxing may not work when the host or container configuration does not expose Landlock/seccomp. In those cases, configure the container to provide the isolation you need and run Codex with `--sandbox danger-full-access` (or the shorthand `--dangerously-bypass-approvals-and-sandbox`) inside that container.

### Experimenting with the Codex Sandbox

To test how commands behave under Codex's sandbox, use the CLI helpers:

```
# macOS
codex sandbox macos [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...

# Linux
codex sandbox linux [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...

# Legacy aliases
codex debug seatbelt [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...
codex debug landlock [--full-auto] [COMMAND]...
```
